are getting a live report now a doctor
is on the phone from inside the alifa
hospital gaza's largest we're hearing
his voice on the phone line now through
translation let's listen
in we are carrying surgical operations
without anesthetic without even oxygen
we are doing performing surgical
operations with least medical supplies
and medical resources at hand we on some
occasions we are forced to leave
patients to die because we are helpless
we cannot perform any uh surgical
operation onto
them the least we can do is to give them
some painkillers intervenous painkiller
to let those victims die in peace we are
helpless we are doing all we can but we
ran out of fuel out of medical supplies
even out of food and
water premature uh newborn
babies many of them
died we lost many of the premature
newborn babies in the incubators
especially we ran out of
oxygen those newborn babies require
certain attention uh very specific
temperature oxygen
supply and even certain medical supplies
that we run out of now those premature
newborn babies are out of
nutrition let alone that they were born
with less weight now started
dehydration loss of weight and with
every passing minute we are losing a
newborn baby we do not even think that
those small
frail bodies can endure as especially
that they were already born uh Less in
weight they range
between 900 to 1,200 G and they were all
they were born 7 months
old they cannot survive they cannot
endure the Israeli occupation forces are
keeping 7,000 people as hostages inside
the hospital we are doing all what we
can to attend to the victims to attend
to the patients already in the hospital
we lost all those who were in the
Intensive Care Unit and now we are
struggling to help the newborn babies to
survive the Israeli occupation forces
claim to have provided incubator to the
hospital however this is not true this
is
false uh in addition we are not in a
need of incubators we have already
incubators in the hospital yet we are
out of fuel that will provide or
generate electricity so we run out of
electricity we need electricity to
operate these incubators we must uh
restore those newborn babies into the
incubators as soon as possible even if
the Israeli occupation forces provide
incubators they are out of
use they're nothing but scrap piece of
metal we need generators we need power
in order to be able to operate these
incubators the Israeli occupation forces
are propagating false claims we are not
able to do anything to these newborn
babies without power without electrical
power the hospital already have
incubators but we cannot operate these
incubators because of absence of
power you said that the number of
victims losing their lives every minute
is on the rise how do you deal with the
dead
bodies yesterday we were facing a
problem as many
victims died they succumbed to their
wounds many of those who were killed
were left more than 18 hours hours we do
not have enough space in the morg we can
we do not have any refrigerator trucks
to keep them we were forced to dig
Graves within the hospital compound and
bury those dead bodies uh what adds
insult to injury the Israeli occupation
forces started to exume those dead
bodies they even took position of some
of these dead bodies we do not know what
they are going to do with
them we started to negotiate with the
Israeli occupation forces we told them
we are in need of food water medical
supplies oxygen and power they turned a
blind eye to our demands our demands
fell to a dead to a deaf ear they
provided only some water and some
sandwiches that is not sufficient to 300
people despite the fact that more than
7,000 people are kept hostages inside
the
hospitals Columns of
Tanks Myriad of soldiers are surrounding
the hospital we are under siege a total
Siege we requested them even to have
some of the victims leave because they
require critical medical attention they
refused we requested them to bury the
dead they refused we even requested them
to have them some of the dead bodies
buried outside in regular cemeteries yet
they refused no one is able to leave and
no one is able to come in we are losing
patience we are losing victims we are
losing newborn babies with every passing
minute the hospital is under tight Siege
we are left without power without
medical supplies without food without
water what we need now is to have some
fuel to restart some of the generators
to restore some power in order to be
able to save those in the Intensive Care
units or the new born babies in the
incubators above all we need a safe
passage out
the hospital has is now nothing but a
mass grave for 7,000 people medical
Cruise patients victims and other
displaced persons who took Refuge into
the hospital it is a big
prison for 7,000 people those 7,000 are
under emminent threat inevitable threat
it is nothing but a
genocide
you said that you are about 7,000 in
total kept as
hostages let's make the pictures
clear are you kept in one section of the
[Music]
hospital those 7,000 people are
distributed in various SE of the
hospital but the western part of the
hospital is now evacuated by the Israeli
occupation forces and they are Roaming
In and
Out and
we are trying to keep the patients and
victims as much as we can in order to
save their
lives
the displaced persons are kept in the
corridor and sometimes around the doors
and within the hospital
yard the medical crews are also doing
their duties they are once between the
victims on other occasions with the
already patients inside the
hospital and we are doing our best even
the medical crews are running here and
there doing all they can in order to
save lives but we are helpless we cannot
perform surgical operations we ran out
of medical supplies there is no power no
water and no food this is imminent death
inevitable death and we have been
appealing to the whole world but no one
is
listening the
Hospital uh Pharmacy we still have
some medical supplies inside but the
Israeli occupation
forces
is denying us
access the newborn babies
require immediate attention they require
hydration
milk even IV intervention but we are
running out of
supplies let alone the displaced persons
inside the
hospital are already patients and many
of them are with chronic disease some of
them with high blood pressures others
with diabetes and they require attention
even the displaced person kept inside
the hospital are also under the threat
of death simply because they are denied
their own medications we are left with
nothing
no power no
food no water with every passing minute
we are losing aive overnight we lost 22
persons for the past 3 days the hospital
has been kept Under Siege we lost more
than
55 persons and all those in the hospital
are lifeloving people innocent people
children Women Medical Crews and
innocent displaced persons the Israeli
occupation forces are stations in are
stationed inside the hospital denying us
every possible means for assistance they
are not even allowing us to leave it is
a war CME crime it's a full-fledged
water War
[Music]
crime what you are undergoing now is
unprecedented in any war in history were
you able to communicate with any
International health organizations like
the Red Cross or the red crescent I ask
you again will you be able to
communicate with any International
Organization we were trying to reach any
of the international organizations but I
told you the Israeli occupation forces
has cut off off all the power internet
connections and even
telecommunication we tried on a number
of occasions to uh uh communicate with
the International Red Cross at least at
least to lend a helping hand to the
newborn babies and allow their exit out
of this hospital to get attention
somewhere
else for the past seven days I
spoke to many International
organizations namely the Red Cross the
36 newborn babies still alive need
immediate attention
however no one moved a finger the
international humanitarian organizations
the health
organizations nothing none of them has
lent any assistance we were abandoned by
the whole world we were abandoned even
by the international organizations
health and relief organizations we are
left with
nothing we are helpless we are saving
trying to save lives but we are helpless
we were abandoned by the whole world by
the health organizations by the
humanitarian relief
organizations despite the fact that many
of these
organizations have already initiated
many projects within the hospital
compound they have even programs in
place up and running but we are left
with nothing we were abandoned by the
whole world let alone the international
relief and health
organizations since you are witnessing
as an eyewitness what's taking
place and what are the Israeli soldiers
doing as we
speak I do not know what the Israeli
soldiers doing but all I can say
that they kept us in one section of the
hospital they
evacuated the MRI sections and the
entire Western section of the hospital
is now
evacuated and we do not know what they
are doing they are moving here and there
up and
down uh to the degree that they even
started to dig with
bulldozers uh across the hospital art
they even exed some of the dead bodies
some of these bodies were taken away we
have been under siege for days we do not
know what they're doing and we do we do
not exactly even able to ask this is a
hospital this is a medical facility we
are catering to patients victims and
people in need for medical attention let
alone the thousands of innocent
civilians who took shelter within the
hospital
compound the we are under siege it is uh
now nothing but a
prison Columns of Tanks all around the
hospitals soldiers everywhere on every
floor on every section of the hospital
we are denied access to the uh only phac
catering to the hospital and we are
helpless we are even left without food
or
water what we are appealing to the whole
world is to have some fuel to restore
the generators in order to be able to
save lives this is a hospital this is a
medical facility we have nothing here
but victims patients and civilians
innocent Civ
Ians alifa hospital is the largest
medical facility in
Gaza it is a fully fledged Hospital
catering to various of discipline and
specializations to
all of the
gazin we have nothing to do with
military or
militants and this is what is the
Israeli occupation forces trying to
propagate after three days
of Siege what are you embracing
for we as a medical staff are holding
our grounds we are not leaving we are
standing our ground we cannot abandon
our duties we will continue to fulfill
our duties as doctors we cannot abandon
our fellow
Palestinians we will continue to cater
with whatever left in
hand
now we are
receiving more victims and angeled
persons we already are overpacked the
influx of victims and patients
is
Indescribable all those who require
surgical operation will be left to die
we cannot do anything to them babies
children women and innocent civilians we
cannot
perform any medical operation on any
[Music]
victim
I asked you what are you embracing for
as a medical
crew it is known to everyone that our
duties is to cater to the
victims we are helpless we have been
abandoned by the whole world we are
doing all what we can we are left
without nothing no more medical supplies
and however
we are embracing for the worst we have
nothing more to fear if the Israelis are
willing to kill us we are prepared we
are embracing for
death
the north of Gaza is
annihilated the entire section of Gaza
is turned into scorched
lands all the hospitals are out of
operations this is a war crime it is
unprecedented in the history of humanity
even in the Dark Ages this is
unprecedented all hospitals are out of
operation even hospitals in the past
used to attend to the victims of the
enemy but now we are not even able to
attend to our own victims we are leaving
patients to die victims to die patients
with cancer are left to die patients
with kidney disease are left to
die victims of the Israeli bombardment
are left to die prematurely newborn
babies are left to die this is a war
crime it's a full
War
crime and the whole world is standing in
silence till when how much how many more
do you want to die to be killed in order
for the world to move it is a war crime
being perpetrated by the Israelis over
the past 5 days yet we are not even able
to post any picture or make a phone
call
[Music]
this is a catastrophe you said that you
cannot even move within sections inside
the hospital but are you able to
communicate with your medical staff
fellow member staff
it is very difficult to move within the
hospital units we are cut off not only
from the outer world the whole world we
are even cut off within the hospital
sections we do not know what is going on
with our fellow medical crews in other
units the Israeli occupation
forces as we speak we lost yet another
baby boy as we speak we lost yet another
newborn baby we lost one
prematurely newborn baby other five in a
very critical situation this is what we
have been saying the whole world is
standing in silence no one is moving a
finger we are cut off from the whole
world gazans are being murdered all the
Gaz are being annihilated it is a war
crime this will be recorded in
history it is a smear in the face of the
whole world for the past week the
Israeli occupation forces have been
laying seede to the hospital colums of
Tanks soldiers everywhere we are cut off
from the whole world
the whole world is watching the whole
world world is watching us being
murdered here inside ala Medical
Hospital
it unprecedented in
history
your is being
repeatedly outed to the whole world but
no
action is taken how do you
respond I do not know what to say at the
end of the day I am a medical
professional I am fulfilling my duty and
I will continue to fulfill my duty till
I breathe my last I am now doing all I
can in order to save lives with whatever
left in hand but I all I can and say
this is unprecedented in the history of
Wars this is unprecedented in modern
history this is unprecedented at all
levels we are losing newborn babies
patients injured victims women even
innocent civilians who are kept hostages
inside the hospitals are dying because
they are even denied their own
medications we cannot do anything we are
helpless besieged denied all forms of
axes and above all we are cut off from
the whole world the whole world even
cannot witness the program taking place
the whole world cannot see this
massacre however we
are left helpless we can do nothing we
will continue to stand our ground
fulfill our duty as a professional me
myself and my fellow medical Crews but
now the whole world has fallen those who
have been preaching about Humanity human
rights and rule of law all those have
proven to be Hypocrites the whole
Humanity has
failed
I am Dr Fel the head of the
Orthopedics I have been here for 10 days
I have been uh examining many of the
victims who lost limbs many of the
utees those have been performed on
without any
athetic as we speak I assure you all
those victims are going to die simply
for the reason that we cannot do
anything to them we cannot perform any
surgical operations we cannot perform
anything without an
athletic I have been in the field for
more than
25 years I haven't seen any like
these one of the victims were forced to
lose his four limbs we amputated the
four limbs the two arms and the two legs
of a fouryear old
child we cut off we severed her four
limbs without anesthetic without even
pain killers this is something in
descript rable I cannot put this to
words I haven't seen this in my life in
my
medical career
before I assure
you Dr mamad the uh director of the
hospital spoke about the newborn babies
now I would like to shed sub light on
those
amputees those are left
die the lack of medical attention is
crucial to
them we if there is no water in the
hospital not even water in the hospital
how do you think we will be able to
perform we have more than
amp those will be left to die one by
one can you repeat how many ues do you
have more than 200 2003 ues some of them
lost a limb others with deep
wounds some of them lost one arm and one
leg and some of them have lost the four
limbs let alone that all those amputees
are left with their wounds
open they are bleeding and we cannot
even dress their
wounds yes you you said that the entire
hospital is denied medical resources
medical supplies even food and water we
appreciate the dire situation you are
in and as we speak we can see pictures
of patients with severed limbs lying on
the floor and those are left to
die they are inevitably going to die
Dr what is alifa hospital is now reeling
under a
catastrophe we have a large number of
victims larger number of patients let
alone the innocent civilians who took
shelter in the
hospital I have been in this career for
23 years I haven't seen anything like
this there is no doubt that these are
dire hours grave
moments precedented in
history and we are afraid to say that
the situation is going to
exacerbate as there is no helping hand
reaching
you if
you put us more in the
picture you spoke about those
amputees those with SED
limbs addition to patients with cancer
pregnant women premature newborn babies
dialysis and kidney disease
patients in addition to all what I said
I must stress
that the hospital is living very dire
hygiene conditions blood is on the floor
everywhere we run out of uh disinfectant
and
detergents dead bodies
everywhere
blood body remains body
[Music]
parts this is unhealthy conditions total
absence of hygiene even those alive will
contract any possible contamination or
disease this is really
unbearable that's true especially that
many of the dead bodies started to
decompose many of the Wounded are still
bleeding some of the dead bodies are
bloated and
reaking
I am sorry I I cannot hold my
tears the situation is dire the
situation is grave I swear to
God excuse me I cannot hold my
tears we are 7,000 people here from
medical Crews to patients to victims to
civilians taking refuge in the hospitals
we are all kept as captives we are kept
as
hostages now the
anesthetic specialist is asking for
help she almost fainted because she
cannot do anything to the
bleeding
victims excuse me I have have to leave
we have to
attend a victim that is in a dire need
for a surgical operation but we are
going to perform without anesthetic
without painkillers this is really
difficult for all of us here it is even
difficult for the medical Crews many of
the nurses have fainted due to
the horror they have
witnessed
we are joined back by Dr Muhammad Abu
the director of the shifa
hospital before him we spoke to Dr fisel
the head of
Orthopedics to be honest uh questions
are of no
good amid these atrocities if you are
if you
have any few words to
say all I can say that we have been
abandoned by the whole
world we
are helpless we are abandoned by the
people and we are left to embrace
imminent
death